demonstrators in Tel Aviv say they're
increasingly angry at the government's
inability to bring back these maning
Israeli captives now there was a rally
held by the family members of those
still being held in Gaza but they say
they're tired of holding peaceful
rallies and are calling for the entire
state of Israel to quote take to the
streets and burn the country down
previously they were calling on Benjamin
Netanyahu to resign and for elections to
be held immediately but now they're
saying that he needs to be overthrown
and until that happens these protests in
massive size and scale will continuously
be happening tonight a lot of violence
between demonstrators and Israeli police
as they attempt to clear roads and here
in Tel Aviv trying to block the major
highway known as ey alone something that
was a reoccurring theme in the year of
anti-government demonstrations but
police have come out in the masses in
order to try and prevent that ham salut
Al jaaz Tel Aviv
well let's discuss this in all the
latest developments in Israel's war on
Gaza with tame kmut he's an assistant
professor of public policy at the DOA
Institute for graduate studies thank you
for joining us before we talk about the
resumption of of the ceasefire talks in
Cairo I wanted to get your thoughts
first on what's going on inside Israel
right now and these ongoing protests are
they posing any threat to Netanyahu and
his coalition government uh FY at at
this stage I mean they're more of u a
noise but not really threat for n
because sadly by large the Israel
Society is still Pro War uh Natan is
still standing on a solid Coalition uh
and uh so far they have not reached the
spping point where when it comes to
their size and their their sheer size
and and impact to really deter Netanyahu
or change his political behavior and
he's aware of these uh facts and
Dynamics he's reading this the Israelis
Street very well so at this stage I
don't think uh they POS real threat
however he's he's he's a master
tactician and and he's still engaging
with these demands by sending
delegations left and right to engage in
negotiations I was going to ask you
about that so the the ceasefire talks
are set to resume in Cairo on Sunday and
then they'll move on to Doha as well but
at the same time Netanyahu is adamant
that he will go ahead with the offensive
on Rafa with the invasion of Rafa why is
this happening at the same time
simultaneously what message is he
sending and and what do you think will
come out of these fire talks if anything
so indeed I mean I mean sending a
delegation this could serve his internal
uh interest like this angry Audience by
him pretending that he's engaging in
these negotiations but at the same time
if we if you look at the of the same
team it's it's I mean it still lacks a
mandate to strike a deal Natan still
holds the final say on on any future
deals uh meaning it has been reported in
Israeli media that it's only him who
objects uh a key condition that has been
an obstacle so far in in succeeding any
future negotiations which is the return
of Palestinian refugees from south to
North and so far this has been a main
obstacle the Hamas negotiator
negotiators wants to see uh some
movement on this on this condition but
the Israelis are very stubborn Netanyahu
himself are very stubborn opposite to
the rest of his War cabinets who are
apparently okay with people going back
to the north and also if if Israel still
plans to move ahead with a military
operation in RAF well it it would be
logical for people to be allowed to go
back to their homes on the north but
he's he's still not he's not he's not
he's not giving any uh any compromises
on this and that's that's the main
problem what about Hamas will they are
they likely to compromise on the
question of releasing captives of course
they will because Hamas Hamas does not
want to see this as a zero sum game I
mean for them
emerging as the I mean losing everything
so so far Hamas has been cornered in
this war the Palestinian people by large
have paid paid a heavy price as this war
still continues and so Hamas as a
Palestinian faction it I mean it's it's
it has been put in this narrow corner
where I think the way these negotiations
have been designed and the way Nano
plays with the conditions uh uh in these
negotiations are merely designed to to
be rejected by Hamas
because rationally negoti negotiation
should be should should lead to
something an outcome that satisfies the
two parties but so far this has been
going on for a long time and I think the
Israelis they have the final say and if
they're sincere about moving on and and
giving some compromises to Hamas to have
the captiv captive the cap the Israeli
captives release this could happen but
again it's natany it's his obstacle it's
himself he's not allowing this to happen
okay Tam as always good to get your
thoughts about the situation in Gaza
thank you very much Tam carot from the
Doha Institute of Graduate
Studies now